# Reference

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: This document was generated by Puppet Strings -->

## Table of Contents

### Classes

#### Public Classes

* [`libvirt`](#libvirt): Sets up libvirtd and optionally qemu-kvm and virt-install

#### Private Classes

* `libvirt::config`
* `libvirt::install`
* `libvirt::params`
* `libvirt::service`

## Classes

### `libvirt`

Sets up libvirtd and optionally qemu-kvm and virt-install

#### Examples

##### 

```puppet
include libvirt
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `libvirt` class.

##### `kvm`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to install qemu-kvm or not

Default value: ``true``

##### `kvm_pkg`

Data type: `String[1]`

The name of the qemu-kvm package

Default value: `'qemu-kvm'`

##### `libvirt_pkg`

Data type: `String[1]`

The name of the libvirt package

Default value: `'libvirt'`

##### `libvirt_service`

Data type: `String[1]`

The name of the libvirt service

Default value: `'libvirtd'`

##### `libvirt_guests`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to enable the libvirt-guests service

Default value: ``false``

##### `libvirt_guests_service`

Data type: `String[1]`

The name of the libvirt-guests service

Default value: `'libvirt-guests'`

##### `libvirt_guests_onboot`

Data type: `Optional[Enum['start', 'ignore']]`

Determines which guests are started on host boot

Default value: ``undef``

##### `libvirt_guests_onshutdown`

Data type: `Optional[Enum['suspend', 'shutdown']]`

Determines if guests are shutdown or suspended on host shutdown

Default value: ``undef``

##### `virt_install`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to install virt-install

Default value: ``true``

##### `virt_install_pkg`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

The name of the virt-install package. Default value is OS-dependent.

Default value: `$libvirt::params::virt_install_pkg`

##### `manage_group`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to create the `socket_group` group. This only ensures the group
exists. It does not change the members of the group. It _will_ change the
GID to match `socket_gid` if `socket_gid` is set to a value.

Default value: ``false``

##### `socket_group`

Data type: `String[1]`

The group that allows access via polkit regardless if `manage_group` is
true or false. Only meaningful if `manage_polkit` is true.

Default value: `'libvirt'`

##### `socket_gid`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

The `socket_group`'s GID

Default value: ``undef``

##### `manage_polkit`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to manage the policykit rule for libvirt.

Default value: ``false``

